# EENG311Project
Final Project for EENG 311: Information System Science II at Colorado School of Mines

In 1958, Kaplan and Meier developed a nonparametric statistic for estimating the survival function from lifetime data. The Kaplan-Meier estimator is known for being capable of accounting for censored data, which allows it to be an accurate estimator for use in clinical trials. To better understand the Kaplan-Meier estimator, our team explores its statistical properties in detail and its numerous applications. In addition, we analyze how different models of censoring affect the estimated survival function from the Kaplan-Meier estimator and how to best mitigate these effects. Furthermore, we compare the effects of censoring when using the Kaplan-Meier estimator to another well-known method, the Nelson-Aalen estimator. Our team found that the characteristic randomness of natural survival data produces jagged patterns in true survival curves, which can more accurately be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimator in the presence of uniform censoring than in the presence of random censoring. Moreover, the censored survival curve generated from the Nelson-Aalen estimator is found to follow the uncensored survival curve more closely than the Kaplan-Meier estimator, however, the differences between them are small enough to be considered trivial. Therefore, the Kaplan-Meier estimator is a suitable tool for use in estimating survival probabilities in clinical trials where the presence of censored data can exist.

This repository includes MATLAB code and a pdf of the final written paper for this project.
